---
layout: post
title: Tech support at its worst
date: '2008-01-30T18:51:00.001Z'
author: Tim Abell
tags:
- mcts
- mcp
- review
- training
- microsoft
modified_time: '2008-06-02T15:06:04.721Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5082828566240519947.post-7104045740264013043
blogger_orig_url: https://timwise.blogspot.com/2008/01/tech-support-at-its-worst.html
---

As you may know, I'm working through a Microsoft e-learning course at the moment. Having had a <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photo_zoom.gne?id=2206580619&amp;size=o">few problems</a> with the service I've been trying to extract some common sense from their support services. Having failed to get anything vaguely helpful I thought I'd ask them about who they were, and I think the following response really sums up the level of idiocy I have encountered thus far.<br /><br />When asked a simple direct question about who I was communicating with, the response is either hilarious or depressing, I'm not sure which. It would seem that before they can tell me where they are based, they need to know what operating system I run, what version of flash I have, what my login is etc etc. Talk about customer disservice. The finishing touch for me is the addition of upbeat advertising added to a response to an evidently already irritated customer.<br /><br />Here are the last two messages for your entertainment (identifiers stripped out):<br /><blockquote><br />-------- Original Message --------<br />Subject:  Re: MCP Ref: C ###### \ site broken. (########)<br />Date:  Thu, 24 Jan 2008 16:03:12 +0000<br />From:  Tim <tim@timwise.co.uk><br />To:  emeamcp@msdirectservices.com <emeamcp@msdirectservices.com><br /><br /><br />I have a couple of questions for you:<br /><br />What company are you directly employed by?<br />Where are you based?<br /><br />Thanks<br /><br />Tim<br /><br /></emeamcp@msdirectservices.com></tim@timwise.co.uk></blockquote><br />The highly considered response:<br /><blockquote><br />-------- Original Message --------<br />Subject:  MCP Ref: C ##### \ site broken. (#######################)<br />Date:  Wed, 30 Jan 2008 15:59:21 +0100 (CET)<br />From:  emeamcp@msdirectservices.com <emeamcp@msdirectservices.com><br />To:  Tim <tim@timwise.co.uk><br /><br /><br />Hello Tim,<br /><br />Thank you for contacting Learning Manager Support.<br /><br />In order for us to process this request, we need the following<br />information from you:<br /><br />- Step by step screen shots of the entire process including the error<br />message<br /><br />- Your log in Live ID and the Unique ID associated to it.<br /><br />To obtain your Unique ID, please follow the steps provided:<br /><br />1) Visit http://account.live.com<br /><br />2) Sign in using your passport account.<br /><br />3) After singing in you will see a page with more options. Please click<br />on 'Registered information'<br /><br />4) At the bottom of this page you will see your Unique ID. It will look<br />like this: '000XXXXXXXXXXXXX'<br /><br />- Detailed description of what the problem/issue is that you are<br />experiencing.<br /><br />- What is the Operating System that you are using?<br /><br />- What is the Internet Browser and version that you are using?<br /><br />- What version of Flash and Shockwave are you using?<br /><br />- Screenshot of the following webpage: https://learning.microsoft.com/Commerce/PurchaseHistory.aspx<br /><br /><br />While some of the above information may not seem applicable to your<br />issue, it is important that we must receive them in order to best<br />resolve your issue.<br /><br />Please also note that we unfortunately are not allowed to provide you<br />any information about our location.<br /><br />Looking forward to receiving your reply.<br /><br />Kind Regards<br /><br />Natalia Wojtaszek<br /><br />Microsoft Regional Service Center<br />E-Mail: emeamcp@msdirectservices.com<br />Tel.: 0800-9170758 or 0800 0960137<br />Fax: ++49 5 24 11 79 60 77<br /><br />In order to keep up to date with the MCP/ MCT program your contact<br />details need to be correct.<br /><br />Don´t forget: You can update your contact details yourself in the<br />Profile Editor on the MCP/ MCT Secure Site at<br /><https: com="" mcp=""> !<br /><br />NOW AVAILABLE: Virtual PC-enabled Labs in Official Microsoft Learning<br />Products https://partnering.one.microsoft.com/mct/vpc/default.aspx<br /><br />Microsoft highly recommends that users with Internet access update their<br />Microsoft software to protect against viruses and security<br />vulnerabilities. The easiest way to do this is to visit the following<br />website:   http://www.Microsoft.com/protect<br /></https:></tim@timwise.co.uk></emeamcp@msdirectservices.com></blockquote><br />It's worth noting that this is totally consistent with the level of service I have experienced with Microsoft e-learning. As far as I can fathom, the e-learning system has been set up on a pile of servers and then been left to rot whilst paying customers are fobbed off by a nameless and faceless 3rd party. It may be profitable in the short term, but this kind of behaviour may well be the cracks in the foundations of Microsoft's empire. I for one am certainly plotting a course for fairer pastures.