---
title: Should you rebase or merge to update feature branches in git?
layout: post
---

You have a "feature branch" in git that you've been working on for a while but now
`master` (or `main`) has moved on.
 (or `main`)
You know of `merge` and `rebase`, but which one should you use? And what can
you do to avoid being in this position in the first-place?

## TLDR

Try rebase. If that dissolves into conflict-resolution-hell then give up, merge
master into your branch and move on.

## The Options

You need to bring your feature branch up to date with with master to flush
out any incompatibilities and deal with any merge conflicts.

You have two common choices:

* **Merge** `origin/master` into your branch.
* **Rebase** your branch onto `origin/master` and force-push.

## The Trade-offs

A blanket rule here either for merge or rebase is unhelpful because there are
**trade-offs** to be made that vary depending on the specific circumstances. (Isn't
that always the answer with git?! "It depends!")

### Should You Merge?

A merge is from master is done like this:

```
git fetch
git merge origin/master
git push
```

#### Merge - The Good

* ðŸ‘ Reliable no-brainer that anyone can follow by rote.
* ðŸ‘ Resolve conflicts only once.
* ðŸ‘ Accurate representation of what happened over time.
* ðŸ‘ Avoids retrospectively [introducing bugs and test failures into commits that
  used to be
valid](https://medium.com/@fredrikmorken/why-you-should-stop-using-git-rebase-5552bee4fed1).
* ðŸ‘ Avoids re-writing previously shared branch, which can confuse less
  experienced git users if they are working with you on the branch.

#### Merge - The Bad

* ðŸ‘Ž Doing this repeatedly makes for a messy history for little or no benefit.
* ðŸ‘Ž Significant merges from master makes it harder/impossible to then go back and
	clean your branch's commits with a `git rebase --interactive`.
* ðŸ‘Ž Tends to generate [wide tramlines in the commit
  history](https://hackernoon.com/git-merge-vs-rebase-whats-the-diff-76413c117333)
	that can be very hard to follow  when looking back to find out when/why
	something was done. (mitigated by `git log --first-parent`, until
	you need to dig into a branch).

### Should You Rebase?

A rebase onto master is done like this:

```
git fetch
git rebase origin/master
git push --force-with-lease
```

#### Rebase - The Good

* ðŸ‘ Avoids tramlines generated by long-lived feature branches
* ðŸ‘ Can result in having to fix the same merge conflict for every commit in your
  branch
* ðŸ‘ Makes resultant history in `master` much easier to follow
* ðŸ‘ Reflects the intention more clearly of "merge these commits into master" as
  opposed to "here's how I flailed my way to a working thing"

#### Rebase - The Bad

* ðŸ‘Ž Can confuse less experienced git users if they are working with you on the
  branch (the answer is usually for them to run `git pull --rebase`)
* ðŸ‘Ž Results in [resolving conflicts multiple times (screencast)](https://youtu.be/5b-vNpSw6R8)
* ðŸ‘Ž Loses chronological order of creation of code (personally I think this is
  less important than a series of clean intentional patches to be applied to
	the codebase when merged to `master`)
* ðŸ‘Ž Could in somewhat rare circumstances retrospectively [introduce bugs and test
  failures into commits that used to be
valid](https://medium.com/@fredrikmorken/why-you-should-stop-using-git-rebase-5552bee4fed1)

## Heuristics To Use

Try rebase. If that dissolves into conflict-resolution-hell then give up, merge
master into your branch and move on.

> "Try rebase. If that dissolves into conflict-resolution-hell then give up,
> merge master into your branch and move on."
>
> ~ Tim Abell
>
> [Tweet this](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CTry%20rebase.%20If%20that%20dissolves%20into%20conflict-resolution-hell%20then%20give%20up%2C%20merge%20master%20into%20your%20branch%20and%20move%20on.%E2%80%9D%20~%20%40timabell%20%F0%9F%91%89%20https%3A%2F%2Ftimwise.co.uk%2F2019%2F10%2F14%2Fmerge-vs-rebase)

Rebase is my preferred approach until:

* Rebase becomes too costly to fix up due to conflicts with `master`, or
* I become aware of an incompatibility with `master` that changes the meaning
	of the previous commits and needs serious work to resolve.

You *can* usually make a difficult rebase work, and I've hunkered down and
tackled probably more than I should have in the name of perfect history graphs.

The problem with a tricky rebase is that if you are doing this for business and
not just for fun then there is a major time cost for only a marginal benefit.

## How to make it through rebase conflicts unscathed

If you decide to battle on with rebase in-spite of conflicts then my tip for
you is:

Don't jump straight to the "correct" code when fixing each commit's conflict,
as that guarantees the next commit won't apply.

Instead as you work through the rebase make each commit apply with its original
meaning and nothing more.

It's worth remembering that each commit on your branch describes how to change
the source code from a before-state to an after-state; so if you change the
after-state of one patch, then the next patch will no longer apply.

## How to avoid the pain of rebases and merges entirely

Pain around this topic is likely a symptom of not breaking down your stories /
pull requests / features into small enough chunks. On a fast moving team
`master` is very fluid and any large & long-running branches will be hard to
review and merge. Try to chip off smaller increments and ship those, maybe
using feature flags or hidden features (those with no visible way of getting to
them).

## More Resources

In general merge vs rebase generates much debate, such as that found on
stackoverflow:
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/804115/when-do-you-use-git-rebase-instead-of-git-merge>
but it is often lacking context.

There are many other articles on the merge/rebase topic such as
<https://derekgourlay.com/blog/git-when-to-merge-vs-when-to-rebase/> but I
couldn't see anything that matched my heuristic for tackling feature branch
updates so I wrote this one.

## Get in touch

Hey there! Thanks for reading!

This post gets far more traffic than anything else on my blog. I'd love to know what brought you here and if the above was helpful.

Please take a moment to fire an email to me at [tim@timwise.co.uk](mailto:tim@timwise.co.uk?subject=merge-rebase-article) and tell me a bit about yourself.

